[column 1]
76

—_—

REY. DR. FULLER'S REPLY TO ARC!
The Rev. Dr. Fuller, of Baltimore, a distinguis
Chnrch, sad anthor of the Memorial of the Mory
tion, of which mention has been mado, lus publ
can'n Reply to Archbishop Hughes, which we sh
sre coulde We cannot forbesr to subjpin the po
ne the Archbichup'a defective view of consei
‘rating about the ebuses of religious liberty:

WThe endeof civil government are manifoet,
and estates of the citizens. It is for ¢ temporal pur
shother world—with spiritual things. These (wu obj
who are intrusted with the government, are not
wre eeldom fit to have such » duty confides! to ther
jaar accountable to Hnineelf, and Hunself only, tn
miterideet to American citizens, But Archhishnp
Civil governmont over religion, on the exme footy

cinice or trsde, + DoesGeneral Case moan to say, t
Sted us, all other nations innet mlopt it, whethe
tight England say, thal because it anited her finan

Takiona must do ihe samo.’ That ie te any, gaver
‘wu th

   
  

 

 

 

 

      

 

impose restrainis upon religivus wore
establish the revenue.

I only alld here, these views of spiritual fr
ut itis affirmed that thie was the only liberty: for
tended, ‘They only pleated, he says, «That the;
ssny thing whieh the law of God and the law of thei
She time, for instanee, soine glorione coules#or 0
Uipon to offer sacrifices to the Pagan gis. ° ©
Christian virgin was required to excrilice her chas
Qwan all tho freedom which the first Christinns sou
Weare to seek. {1 an American citizen is allow
bosom, amt ie not required to do any act forbidd
Lbeny! Apostles and martyrs desire no moro.
to indulge her thoughts and not compulled te bee
12) for her liberty! ‘The heroinee of the Bible #0
Hf those ‘early Christiane,’ apostles, sm! conlessor
would rebuke this bel upon their truth and loyal
drew bie breath in this Inid who thus interprete

such motlele fir our imitetion.

T’To susinin his assertions as to the low views
tained of religinue liberty, Bishop Huzhes relere
fullinn, ‘To these Apologies 1 at onee and confit
the calumny, Justin presented two aklresses

;_and both pleated for the right to worship 3
conacience, ‘The object of there Apalngies was:
re for Chirtaians freedom from perseet
tions in vein. Heathen emperore
by kings and rulers miseulted
et the ony athena ‘Chnrob History,
the Aposttes.) And what are the rights which th
ing to this inepired record? Ie it uly liberty te
Iecoerced to deeds of idolatry and vice? By 1
those inapired men claiming the very naht lor
Worship God according to their consciences. Na
MMeerted their right tos peak and preach boldly in
Between them nod the Sanhedrim, and where
and the governments, the whole cantroversy tu
Sanhedrim aul the rulers seeking to abridge tha
their authority, exclaiming, ‘Whether it be righ
judge ye." ‘Who art thou that judgest anether m
fo stondeth or falleth/

“Those who presented the Memorial to Cer
seligioos freedom whieh the apostles lied, and
Hans nntil Christionity became corraptes hy, the
‘Archbishop has referred to Tertullian ; but whet
‘raluz potestatia unicuigue quod Sed

ae debet nion oe! "Wi
‘whatever he may choose. | Noi
suet be recei Me
juorial seeks to secure, aud the two argument
the name of sophiatries.

“First itis eaid that the liberty of conscic
character of actions, and "is beyond tho reach o}
Sttempt to pass laws regulating the exerciso of
‘of man’s conscience.’ Here is one argument;
for which Congress bas been memorialized?

“ett would not be ditficult to prove that spi
Jato even the decisions of maan's conscienre, t
‘as heretice for the inward exercises of their 50

mach more than feedom of thouzht and opi

the heart, the inward homage, but the exterue
tianity has its ordinances, ite external obser an
as tyrannical as it would be to inflict peenlties

Joean requires not only ‘faith in the heart,’ h

disciples are ut only to belive, hot to be t

Suppet, and ‘not to forsake the. assernbling

What mockery to prascribe and imprison mer

to their conscientious convictions, and then

aanot be inirinzed, Would our Romar Coll
fitenty of conscience guarantied in the conet
conatmed? Would it not be an insult to ther

Sngel,’ enys Milton, 'enn know what ncte o

He reveal thom,’ When revealed, however,

Knows uct, that in all agee it has been

that persecution has heen levelled? Azain «

the Heart was all, and exhorted only to nbrsta

But they have repelled! this pernicious lls

truth, aad God, have weleomed devih 1 eve

‘who saya, 'Whosoever shall confess Me

also confess before the angele of God. tt

Me before tnen shell he denied before the.

T(f pasa now to the other arguinent. It is,

the right to think, then we are asking too m

citizens muy have the right to preach every

‘asaail the religions which are established! yn

“tHf italioold happen to be a Mullerite ¥
to pite hi tent front of St Peter's Chun
of General Casa’ doctrine to * ok anil act ne
he will undertake to prove that the enut of |

‘Now, as freedom peacefnlly to worshi
Jesve ie one thing, and the right of aggress
enough for those who have petitioned Cong
ing ie wholly irrolevant—a mero evasion ol |
Tarde be permitted to erect churches, to assé
tian ordinances, 1o marry. and bory their d
let them be protected in these privilestes.
be asked, is a disgrace to the nineteenth
humanity, And that a Christian bishop sh

grees for ‘advocating, in hia place, thie pr
Fat f wil not betiove that Catholics thems
be bronght to commend,

\CLeat it should be anpposed, however, |
logic of Archbishop Hughes, let me cons

the sale sophiatry of reasoning against a |

“(In hie Rocycheal letter of 1832, the P
‘never to be suftioiently execrated,” ais
that past of all othors most to be dreuten!
wilt not complain if I soppose that briwoe
ference of opinion on these points, Am!
Horront to Protestants is to be found in th
that etich liberty may be abused.

‘Now, passing the freedoin of the j1tos
opinion,—yea, full liberty to preach and

[column 2]
THE CURISTI

— _  ———————
* whiets should be acoorded to »
!

 

 

O ARCHBISHOP HVGHES. tila 60, ong cou

istinguished minister of the Baptist [are not violate, fn enul

he eglandd Boptiet Uniow Amacia- |°, nel baleen

is pubhiatied in the Baltimore finer pm ieet agyanous, ase. cool

“ire should he glnd to give entire if lest ncenmplish there enue by

1 the portion of it which so ably et- ) Nin 80 civil government,
\d effectually onswers ‘subserve ite design by’

 

 

  

on
ot
ber

  

  
 
   

eitiiaiCnedy a
co i railroad companies, a
propagating roligiost

ream previ so with the:

  
  

 

cet, {tis ontained to protect the

poral purpose, Religion las to fo witht} zen in his religions righte; bat

‘hose | Gempauy to preacribe religiaus

   

 

 

Piwu objecte ure entirely distinct. “T
seer catrasted with religion, "They | +} ts jum nothing & reply,
jeuens, rai

    

Fre toms ar i ft, Ged lias mapde every [rere then hee
ni it te ol religions All this ix | Goitne, whetthen? All uberty
Tiuughes places the enthorily Ot | one surt of Ireedom is to bs
tis supremacy over Com- | of liberty; aud thus anruing Oe
jnue liberty) | follow that absolute despolisra
I? As well | «Admit possible obuses of
i blight und curse of religious b
Hance ie have the seme fight 0 land kings, aud rulers, who ere
Frey have vo reyaluce @ aril wnt!) coqaprrecd epiitusl trues,
‘ | octtamient for the sratticatto
sritnal freedom are not only maintained, |" « Butin reality, those whos
ry for wch the early Christiane con | AoE ey te moat
ey Fo wnabt not be compelled to 1k | Garch with atthe of te evile
Tat ay rovctenees had forbulen.. AL | Ly rohyious tyranny, a truth
Fomor of the Clristin name was calle! | he bininty of these Ginited St
eewor of the Vgnothertinie some tendet |< Whni in effect are t

her chastity.’ Thi, we are gravely tnkd. | «Why the Millerie will
fn aourthi, aol thinisthe freedom whiclt | yke to prove at the ene of th
Te thank in the recesses 1 his [ful a ttiet 1 our Millerite t
Torhaddien hy, God, tet him reyoive im hit 40 refute him, I hw be rh
‘more. If-an American lady is permite! | we know that of Rome is, th
xi to become e prostitute, let her be grete- | aint be wired ‘to flen froma th
Biblo sovght no higher pavilege. 1, but | his Mullerite snay tt stOp
conlessors. and mariyrs, coukt apesk, they’ [oeneite may by applying *f
cor epaity to Jesus.” Avil earely Henever | Revelation, amt vlucilatng t
nterprets ireedam of soul, aud would prov at the Inig hor auc line hor
{ deseripive of Ausi-Chrit pr

iC nught happen. that thie 8u;
from camo window of the 1
viliting th

 

    
 
 

eat
with a

   

  
   

  

 

  

   
 

 

ww views which the easly Christians ent
2 relereto the Apologies of Juetin sunt
*Fconfiventty appeal. They utterly elute) he understood
Kidreenes to the emperor, snd Tertullian | Gencsal Cas
worship aunt serve Goil freely, necoulin, to Vell, grout even this,
Neate the Christian religion | ihe Hend af the Church. th
m petaecrtion lr Ihe w Nar wer Heanor? Crowded
mporore granied priviteges which are wow) at ance be vindicnted, art
nisealled Christin, 5 “Lat truth and error,’ ays M
Hoa ed cain the Bible. Iv is the ‘Actxol | o fear? Would it be neces
ivhich the early Christians nssertetl, oe Teat it liouhl be proved tho
Tiherty to exercise the intell I RaARTIeG Etats
ot Hy no means, Um every powe we fi
Spt ewhich we now plesd—ihe rightm | | CoNcuusies —And nc
Miney wont murh further. They’ | Hughes and fie Reply to
Noucme of Jesits In Jerusalem, | ocenpying #0 meny pages
ae vverever they traveled, tetween then’ | only plea in justibeation
Wemy turned uport roliions liberty. ‘Tw | dinasly among us, a9 abe
pridge that liberty, and the disciples rejecting a fod with ber eubll
it be right to hearken unto Gor! or tintio you, eee '
Inetheemen'erervantt? ‘Tohisown master |i vole the net is spread
by enlightening the peoy

al to Congress cotestain the some views ol that we ean hope to save
fekl, and which were most dear to all Chris- | thot qnarter.
fed hy the union of Chorch aud State. Tho
hut what does he say? Humanijuri el nat
ast aes veelgiont eat cogerereigionem que. | Stave or LrALt <The Pr
work of public wsiitg; thy
t

 

  
     

 

   

    

  

   

wes.
baldl

   

 

 

atnral and civil right of every one to worship
he office of reign to Fre Siigions which | aot one of them hus been
be office ot iethe very Tight whieh the Me- |ouragement of commore

ix oF seven thousand me

vrgumments inet it searcely deserve
— ee y Ucfcit of two millions and.
+ conacicnce is only the right to jalge of tn | eausee which have been &
oreach of governments, They might ss woll jotthe: State, | t Wreiche
Soot memory an egulsting the decisions | of privileged. clarses fron
Reoment; bat whit fis i 10 co with the object] and dice ruinons te the.
inlined ? which bos impored then.
fo the government, and ni)
science’ und that men have bosn munlored | | It is pleasnas Yo hum fre
ere ota, Bt frondors to worship God ix {wl religious liberty.
ani opisim, ‘The gospel demas aut only | the claret pony & the
ce eeiel profeasion nnd abetieuce.  Chria |tight to jmige the Senlil
eoarcrince, enato punish forebeying these in| threat of » public steme
saa for the inyrant provesses ol thooynt | Tad there been & Protest
feart,’ hut ‘confession wih the month.” Hix tliciently interested in
ot to be baptized, 10 meet ant panuke of the j and tuinisters, | believe t
Ranbling of thensalves together far warship.” | irom taking porseasion 0
Sa Ota alurging hese prevopie canting | mistuke ou he part of
xad then to preteant that hberty of conscience’ | swother cose of the same
a Cothon lellow-cluizens be antistied if tho |} eanuot think it a very,
Pane vcattutien of the Unite Staies wore thus }they hast been deprived
the cant wait to all decenry? "Ne nan nor | Sevomnmodate a Homish
eae ot wcarahip are plensits 10 Got except |, To one whe knew Ty
however, it ie oer first duty ti nbey, Ami who |Go to almost any book-¢
en ogainel this visible homaze ani obedience printed openly th Turin
ain and again hove martyrs been takl that | whieh the king'6
y to nbstain trom the outward acie ot religion eye Holinn Ee aatgele
Yee talgwhonte—auil troe tn couscieuce, and cullection you ind Mer
vie Hon [and Bunyan’ Pilgrim

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

    

 

 

  

  

aly n every form rather than be re
ee retary niet Rim hail the Suit ni maw, | fall's “Late of Dr. Gord
a Me oeldihe only alternatice) We that sleineth | treatises by Dr. De Sane
fore the angele at Gol.’ |1o the truth whieh they

| among the hnnitsame t

Nt. It ia, tat if religious irectoin be moro than
ng too much: we are plemfing that Anserivan | W aldensinn Cluroh—
i ery whore thetr opmvions. av! thus event to | eluoch at threo o lock
Iishodl an other lune, Bishop Ha Tiana, many of whorn
lerite visiting Rome, W Never of the Churches
He Churehy, then ant! there, under the protectinn
vnect nccunding tothe dielatcs of his conactence:
@ eral of the worhl is at bani,” &. ke
9 worship God and 10 obey the oniir
P seyreesion anil prapagation enother thin, i
ned Congress, simply 10 *ny, that sll thie reason: Y
raxion al the question. Lat onreitizens in foreiz EE EO Ror
aon 01 tie SUT ships to nbwerva ine nea: |.qe erratatn ated to
Feat en ratgaons fore ev), | eee Om ipa: aM
Y vileges. ‘That is what we ask, That it was to | ig Ce cd Oa
hoteenth centiry. to the Christan nome, aml to | +Caneot me feat
Hislop should useail aml nhuse a Setiator in Con- | joner st Apes,
thie privilege far American citizens, i \Welimearatteataic
ca themselves, il hey are Atnericau eitize Set sre ol Booun
“Cannot you nil Yo
owever, that wo Protestants ee any force 10 thie | bnt | requlfe afl my,
Tmo consider i far a moment; and what «it hat | con apere my 1 he ap
gainat a thing (rom ite abuse ? ‘Thus every call of hi

£2, the Pape ileclaren that liberty of the prens is | was satis And ts
the expansive genius «

  

 
 

   

 

unt your dlocem nid ou
hiebop replies, “but th
churebes ara continual!

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

   

 

ted,” aud that ‘uutvidied libery af option ia
drenuten! in w State! ‘The Archbishop Of course, | Charity does nae at
the asrtb, und though
Wer hora of plenty a

at bei woen the: and Inmaelt there is no dit
ie, Ain! | pruanme hie detene of views aa aby-
Wi in ths arguments of hie letters. He vill eay | Terelv® them.

the jose, I maintain that full liborty nf religious | , The College of Dru
ach and wlvocate religious opinions,—is a right Rome is never of a le

[column 3]
— =

PSTIAN RECORDER.
iog | Pouress)

dod ta oll men, unit with whigh goverumente Lave
cl mian/which goveraments are appointed to proteet,] 4 ia
Fn va edvil governement to texnporal objects, let | of Duties |
pare cream to apirtal things, Hut government in ot mer, 10
compare ings, ‘The banks, the railroad compaities, on
reve niivances FOr certain ified objects; and they will Mer, 9 Fres
ale Dy avonding to the ofice for whieh they were orenteil.
Jcmment,. lie on apparatus for tempos eile; oud wl
it ering to the. purposes for which it was ordained: F
eli oer Corporations ‘mney furnish facilities to those et
Mugu; hut they have nothing to do with gett ia theelogical | Csert in ¢
Se ae ei may indirectly ai Ht owght to protect the 6x | holle eam
te; bat i has no yore authority than the Wank or away | he peo
mm nation

eligiaus erceals oF 1Orts. .
ws reply, that if 0 State be not suversizn Over Me jous mat- | man Cuth
Ye idolity, ane a thousand shuses, may be taimpauy | the Hep
atl iituny woay be nbused, and civiliberty ix constantly apueed, ore Crate
M1 iter ta ctogutehed for lear of ite abuse, 60 mats all sor sumed to
iguingg against a good thing be inay be ebused it will | regions, d
{eaponista is preferablo to free ; with s jor
shaves of reltziuue freedom, better bear tl ict the | thowe vast
igiane bonutaze, the eubjection of the immorin) ‘son! to czars, [name of |
eae re aeucralty of all men the least fil 10 regulate or oven the extrer
yriths; end who hove ‘constantly prostituted religion into an tie sie ‘
atification of their own passi Ison of
thi greatly exoggorate these | yey

Tiralged religious liberty /cun nover scourge the ome
Y and are now perpetrated, | Cstont in
ori hid Gade ie prompt and complete confirmation 19 | gucient d
{itited States compared with the bistory of Europe. ey thea
1 oes What?’ exclaime the author of the letters. | slong. th
ert in front of St, Peter's ot Rome,’ aud 'nnder- | ogeans; |
ond? Well, aud what iethere sodrend- | and pron
end of the wrong, eurely thore are eclenastice euough in, Rome | proved |
be right, may it not be mercy to a population 0 vicious as |the New
ne in, to be whnonished that ? the day of the Lord ie at hanil,’ | whieh w
ee wrath icone?” “Bot hold, replies the Archbishop, | ¥rve tm
‘int stop there,’ ‘The Bishop atde— . emp
plying “figure which never fin” to the books of Douiel snd of | spires

Pyne the subject etl more hy exhibiting appropriate dresrings | Cy
Tite horus, with various references to the number of the beast | be oo th
Shriat, prove clesrly that hisiloctri iaright, Inthe mean time, | ming
at this supposed Anti-Cluist, the Pope, would be looking down ror:
eave weican, nnable to interfere lest his government shovld ete

oluing the nghtsil American ‘consvience as shadowed forth by ni
ji t

If the preacher be in error, cannot fe
cr ates a auccessar of Peter, imitate eter, and expose the rs
Hur ee Rome is with rninisters of religion, the truth would | pat eve
ot an lalschood be placed upon, an, eminenco of derision. | upward
rays Milton, ‘hove a fxr dickt, rath wal never have Any thing | to para
Paeseetary, even in ome, 16 interfere hy phyeical violeuce, | Uoanes
ope F thot the ‘man looking down from some window’ i= indeed | Roman
setion
re

  

 

     
   

  
 

    

  

   
  
   

 

 

  
 
 

 
 

 

 

   

 

 

  

 

  

 

en this, etill what then?

_And now we terminote this long notice of Archbishop

Reply to General if any one should complain of oar
"pages of this aumber of our magazine with the eubject, ovr
Fie fa its tranecendent importance. Rome works inei-| tn o
vise abc docs every where else. Out people must be made |seret
Me Mbtleties ond plane, if we would defeat them, | “Surely
respread in the might of any bird.” Prov. i. 17. Tt ia only ——
erature ond objects of Rome's movomente, ! state

the people on th
“to save our country from tho dangers whioh threaten it from | vast, t

 

     

— ‘The
to tak

~The Papal government since 1880 hasbeen engaged in no Brent | moral
rojected in 1848 remain mere t8 atill; Jin “C

  

tility; the railways projectet
yas been consirucied; sothing whatever has been dons tho e1
ornmerce, agrienitare, of industry, and the Papal army of some | s000 |
ae catot be so great « burden as to cconal for a yearly | | Thy
ions and a half of Roman scudi. I sball merely cite a few of the | cours
sory gasigmied for expenditure 80 greatly exceeding the income + the N
Wretched acdministration in every de ment. 2. ‘The exemption of the
.xses from the pulilio burdens. 3. Wretched enstom-house laws, dove
rete the commence of the country, as well as to the government oth
atin 4. The Austrino troops in Romagna are still a bneden j 7 nt
ni, and nnisance to the people. oat
nts an from Rome to Piedmont, now enjoying the blessings of civil | of,
erty. | meutuoerl before the oe ‘of Archbishop Charvaz and 1c
jn the matter of the Waldensian C! arch of Genoa, But it is 200 | ypc,
one auch case to the | Pian,

 

 

 

 

y ontravan government hardly for yieldin
clamor, expecially when coming from every powerlul patty: | ud
i Protestant ambseaador in Turin, English, Prassian, or Ameren, | tout
ane in the. Protestant cause to speak one firm word to the kis
believe the Woldenses in
session of the church which they hed parchased.
gps ol the mina but there ie good reason to believe that should)
‘tho same kin ane, they would act differently. And, at all event
itu yety great injury to the Waldensian congregation at Genoa
Vleprived ot the vee of the “Gran Madre di Dio,” as itis difficult to
a Homish church to Protestant service. =
new Turin five years ite sent stale is most ext jinary. | ¥'
ny canted vari soared find italian Bibles, and Proreetont rac, | 8
Ty Turin, or xocreily in Tuscany, ‘Turn down from the great square |)
Jng’s palaco staoily, ond the " Evangelical Labrary’” catches your tho:
wangelcal books are not yot very plooty,, but if you glance ovel te peo
Tad'Sterle D’Avhigne's Flisiory, and. Adolphe. Monod’s ' tascilte,” {°F
+ Pilgrim's Progross,”” and ‘Watts! Scripture History,” and Newman
(Dr. Gordon,” and seme other books well known in England ; besides | T*
"Do Sanctis, and other Italian writers, who have rought to tead others | =
hieh they hove tomd tor themselves. Go down to Porta Nuova, and |°°"
Malsome buildings ol one of tte finest atreets in the enpital stouds the | gi
‘iurohe-no mean ornament eveb to that part of the city. Euter tha | ny
10 o'clock on Sabbeth afternoon, and there it fect orowd of Ita- | ne
it whorn are evidently oll unacoustomed to a Protestant eervire— | th
hurches
— \s
.
jesiome, can- jal

  

 
 

 

 

  

 

 

   
  

 

at Hoxe.—* Bisho}
(id ovr winalon to——|
\ hut the diocess reyes
continustly heyging for nasistance, apd all
iy begion at bome, str.” m
Gor parish sid our diocesan fundt” anys the bishop to one of his clergy. (th
se glad: to do It,” roplies the clergymen, “but the pariah requires oll ite
any of oot families are ory poor, apd all we cau spare | o
Charity beginn at home, bishop." ”
cur family aid our parish benevolent soctety ” says = pastor to o parish: | A
rontd be gin to do tt,” replies the parishioner, "*but my family require alt |
their own support, ‘Two of my children have bea unfortunate Ip the | y
NV we oan spare is devoted to them. Charity begins at home, sir." .
jou nit your htother?” says'a father ton son, "1 shoutd be glad to do it, |
® all my mesne for my own sopport. My house wants repairs, and all 1)
dot be appropriated to them, Charity begins at Lome, father.
y cal of tara ‘might be postpoued until the last want, ever of Inaury. |
“And Ie thio charity My parish ; my family; my Koune; mueelfi | The
genius of Christine benevolonce Y No, itis mars selfishnaes in disguloe, |.
 fegin nt home, but che does not forevar stay at home. No, she traverass |
vil Cough uot uneindfal of the claims of brotherhood and kiadrell, from |;
plonty she deportes blesings ‘wherever there lo a band strotche forth to

 

” saya no agent for fore
atid be glad to Ho 90." perhaps the | w

tis monor for its own support. (tub conntey

‘oan apare rust bo given 16 | m

    

 
 

 

  

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

ge of Drumooncirs, for Romish siusiens, contaise above niney stndents— }
ror at Alona (or omivearien,

[column 4]
——
Pouresransiem axe Kostasisat.—The influance of these
ro aystene on civilizatioo, on literature, and on the whole
poman well being, contrasts most favourably to the for-
cr, eo mach 90 thal all ayes enn nee it, and mony tonguas
nd’ peas ure forced to acknowledge (ts " M. Mictet Cheva-
or, a French journalist and distinguished advocate of Ro-
‘anism, in on article in the Journal dee Debate, ways: —

T cannot eet my eyon to the facts thut milliate ogainst
ie Infinewee of the
ranspired moro eepesiolly during the
ary, and which are still in progres—
xart in every mind thot eympallizes
holle canse the most lively apprehensions.
he progrese mado since 1814 hy non-Romae
ion'nations, with the advoucement to power abieined by Ro-
nan Cuthotic natioss, one in struck with astonishment at
he disproportion. England aud the Usited States, whieh
wre Urotestant powers, and Russia, a Greek power, have os-
ramed to on incalculable degree the dominion of imm

‘destined to be densely peopted, aud already teeming

    
 

  
   
  
 
 

 

 

   

 

 

 

   

 
   

regi
with ® inrge popotation. “Fnglwod bas pearly eongnered at
Thove vast snd populona regions knowe under the generic

zation to

   

name of tedie. tn Americn eho bus diased
the extreme north, in the deserts of Upper Caosda,, Throwgh
the toil of her children she hex taken posession of sn
Selon of New Holland, (Auetralia,) which is ae large as @
continent, ond she hus heen sending forth her fresh shoots

ver all ihe archipelogoes with which the great ocesn is

stuchted, ‘The United States have ewolten out to o prodigious

cxtont in wealth ond potsessious over the nurfice of their

qucient domain. ‘They bove, morenver, enlarged on alt rider

‘the limits of thot déinale, ancientty confined to a na tp

Hlong the shores of tho Atlantic; they now ait on the two

teense; Ban Franciveo hes hecome the pendant of New York,

find protuines speedily to rival ttiu its destinies, | They lave

Proved their superiority over the Krmen Catholic notions of

the New World, snd have subjected them to ¢ dictatorship

Shieh ndmits of no forther dispote. To the sothority of

these two powers, England ond the Ucited States, after eo

Stiempl made by the former ov China, the two most renowned

  

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

   

rp
tbe op the polot of yiclding. Tu ain, appeare to he 0%
suming every doy a position of growing importance ip
| Europe. During all this time, what way bas been wade hy
the Roman Catholic nations? ' The foreinost of them all, the
nest compact, the most glorious, France, which seemed, fifty
Years ago, to have mounted the throne of civilization, ha
Zen, through m course of strangs disasters, her ecep\
Shivered, end her power dissolved. nen ond again has she
Fisen to ber feet, with noble courage and indomitable ener;
|| hutt every time, o8 oll axpeoted to see her take a rapid fight
upward, fote hins sent her, as a carse from God, 9 revolution
to paralyze ber efforts, and make ler miserably fall back
| ‘bly. since 174, the balence of power between
Roman Catholie clvilizstion ond nop-Romsn Catholic oivili-
zation hae been reversed.”
‘We only add, ‘By their fruits ye shall koow them.”

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

p

r —

fi FACTS AND GLEANINGS.

| In one of his recent pablieatious, the Rev. J, A. Jamen eb-
e there ts nothing now so mnch peedled by and for

    

y | Christianity se an earnest excmplifcation of Chris's ovo

y [tesco 10 His permon on the mount ded on the upos-
tie's doctrine of justification by faith. Ile adds, that, tbe

+, | state of the world is now such, the work to be

x | vast, that we peed apoctotle men, such as Tou! and Bai

bae-men Ip afl respects formed on the apostolic model.

“The lending Papiets of the United Kingdom aro beginning
to take alarm at the atorm that (» rising against them. The
‘orale of the Popish porty in the House of Commune, aa neem
Te “Corruption Committees," must excite the astonishment
| of Protestants, ‘These tools of the Irish pricatbood are likely
soon to fied their tevel.

‘The aspect of evangelical Protestantism in Britain le-en-
couroging.. The discussious in the House of Commons, on
the Nonneries Bill, ond for securing to puns the fres exerci
of their lawful rights in the disposal of their praperty, have
Gone good. A large pamber of Members of Parliament from
Scotland and Eogland ore prepared to oppose Popish endow -
ments. What are the Protestants uf the North of Ireland

| doing ?

 

 

 

 

  

vi} |__-A large pumber of New Testaments have been distribated,

vil | st Lyons, among the Fronch troupe, on their way to Torker,

nd |" cis wxid that » petition was lately addressed to the De
paror of France, signed by seventeen bishops and areh-

bishops, praying for the dismissal of the Mi

sud the substitution of » mors rigid Copist in hisstend. Pro-

estantism is op the mareb, even ie France.

“Ata quérterly meeting of the Welsh Assoclatioo, In Bean-
fort, there were delivered mae sermone fe the same congrega~
thon, Ip one day, by mine ministers of the Gospel.

Ti tas heeo sald that the fie of the miniatry ia the misie~
tert ie. "The workd,” says Cecil, looks at ministers out
of the polpit to see what they menn in it.”

U How fittle did I think wi that moment," says Feliz Nef?
the pated from the summit of Monte Vieo, on the country
Stbis feet, “ef the Cmaara, the Brateses, the Virgils of anetent
wig, | times. One consideration absorbed att my thoughts: twos
how surveying the dark empire of the Beast, Ob, Jeous,
thon Divine Sun; wilt thou never enlighten this unbappy
your | eoplel” May we evcn lave a Falix Neff on every green hill
| of Brin.
107” | teary Nartyn complaine that want of private Aovetionsl
man | reading, ond shortness of prayer, through intomant #8
les | cpaking, bad produeed much strangeness Delwoen ‘God and bis
foul. flow true to the experience of every minister |
jand |°°"Walle the Rev. Ki. Evans, on bie death bed, was waralng
othe | ¢iend against Antinomisniem, he was naked, +*De yon mesa
r the | hy that m resting onthe doctrines of grace, withon! ‘watchfal-
F Ita | pas of the walk before Godt” “6 do,"* wax his reply. "400
°6— | that religion is o fallacy.
Speaking of Madeira, Dr. Kallay says thot, «In thelr open
Moeetings, there were not fewer than HWW) persons pre-

each Sabbath; generally they exoveded ZIXN), oven sion
‘When

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

.
can- | ally renebed 3000, snd once were reckoned st 6000."
pa the | with auch awakenings be seen in our own Innit
nntry |" 1 The Bible,” soya Rev. W. Hewiteon, *" gives not only ths
eo 16| mind of God, but His heart.” 1t is the Intter exhibited to
mon whish draws ond wins, ‘tt ts the heart whieh mekos
Jergy. | the divine," was the maxim of Neander.
oll its |. ‘The most wonderfut death beil ws aver rend of was that
‘pore |of Halyburton, ‘Take the following aa a specimen —" 0,
av [ihe thoughts of an inearnute God are nwoet and refresbing
worinh- |’and O how do I woodsr ot myself that 1 do pot love Itite
ira all | more! © to bavs Godt Pnrsbig ‘to His Church, ond fH
in the |work going on tn the world! tf every drop of my loot,
Avery hit of my body, every hatr of my head were all
» do it, | they shonld go to the fire to hove this going on. O blessed
\d all 1| be God that ever I was born! K have a futher; s moth
and ten brethren amt sisters in heaven, asd 1 shall be the
cloventh, Of t ware where he to! Glory, glory for sup:
ort, coutinned support, to ths ehief of simuers! 0 tent P
woul ving forth His prnine! Q what wonderful power ix
Chutl” ‘There must he a jubilant power in retglon whlels
fow ef us have reached.
‘On the Romieh cathedral of Ardagh £30,000 have heen
expended, How do thay got the maney?
The " Cathotio Directory “mye that there are 2742 Romlah
leate-— Jelergy Iu treland, It affirms the tlopish population to be
seven milllons! Tt really amounte ta sbrut fuur milltoos.

 

        

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

<p
